Upate the cloud-config generating content (#1063)
harvester/docs: docs/rancher/cloud-provider.md

### Manually Deploying to the RKE2 Cluster

> 1. Follow [Generate the cloud-config for Harvester Cloud Provider](#generate-the-cloud-config-for-harvester-cloud-provider).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. [Generate the cloud-config for the Harvester Cloud Provider](#generate-the-cloud-config-for-harvester-cloud-provider).
```

![](/img/v1.9/rancher/guest-cluster-custom.png)

> 1. Follow [Generate the cloud-config for Harvester Cloud Provider](#generate-the-cloud-config-for-harvester-cloud-provider).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. [Generate the cloud-config for the Harvester Cloud Provider](#generate-the-cloud-config-for-harvester-cloud-provider).
```

When spinning up a K3s cluster using the Harvester node driver, you can perform the following steps to deploy the harvester cloud provider:

> 1. Follow [Generate the cloud-config for Harvester Cloud Provider](#generate-the-cloud-config-for-harvester-cloud-provider).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. [Generate the cloud-config for the Harvester Cloud Provider](#generate-the-cloud-config-for-harvester-cloud-provider).
```

```

**Response:**

```yaml
########## cloud-init user data ############
write_files:
- encoding: b64
  content: <BASE64_CONTENT>
  owner: root:root
  path: /etc/kubernetes/cloud-config
  permissions: '0644'
- encoding: b64
  content: <BASE64_CONTENT>
  owner: root:root
  path: /var/lib/rancher/rke2/etc/config-files/cloud-provider-config
  permissions: '0644'
```

##### 2. GET Request

*(Note: Ensure a single `&` is used to separate query parameters)*

```bash
curl -k -X GET \
  -H "Authorization: Bearer token-abcde:..." \
  "https://<vip>/v1/harvester/kubeconfig?namespace=gc-test&serviceAccountName=gc4&outputFormat=yaml"
```

**Response:**

```yaml
########## cloud-init user data ############
write_files:
- encoding: b64
  content: <BASE64_CONTENT>
  owner: root:root
  path: /etc/kubernetes/cloud-config
  permissions: '0644'
- encoding: b64
  content: <BASE64_CONTENT>
  owner: root:root
  path: /var/lib/rancher/rke2/etc/config-files/cloud-provider-config
  permissions: '0644'
```

:::note

The `GET` response contains the cloud-init configuration for both the legacy and new paths. Make sure to remove the section that does not apply to your environment.

:::

> #### Via BASH Script

Reviewer 2: i think we should just deprecate and remove this. maybe just add a note saying "_for <1.9.0, refer to the respective versioned documentation"_.

Author: As both HCP, CSI are linking to the bash scripts, we will check and deprecate/remove them on other PRs.

A note is added to the section

<img width="992" height="261" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/13f8ec43-6d82-46bf-a797-4b26b3cd074f" />

  name: default
# ...
```

You must specify the namespace in which the guest cluster will be created.

:::

Example of output:

```yaml
########## cloud config ############
apiVersion: v1
clusters:
- cluster:
    certificate-authority-data: <CACERT>
    server: https://HARVESTER-ENDPOINT/k8s/clusters/local
  name: local
contexts:
- context:
    cluster: local
    namespace: default
    user: harvester-cloud-provider-default-local
  name: harvester-cloud-provider-default-local
current-context: harvester-cloud-provider-default-local
kind: Config
preferences: {}
users:
- name: harvester-cloud-provider-default-local
  user:
    token: <TOKEN>

########## cloud-init user data ############
write_files:
- encoding: b64
  content: <CONTENT>
  owner: root:root
  path: /etc/kubernetes/cloud-config
  permissions: '0644'
```

:::note

In newer RKE2 versions (e.g. v1.33.11), the cloud-config path defaults to `/var/lib/rancher/rke2/etc/config-files/cloud-provider-config`. Ensure `cloudConfigPath` matches the file location you write to:

- If you use the RKE2 default path, change the `write_files` entry above to `path: /var/lib/rancher/rke2/etc/config-files/cloud-provider-config`.

> - If you keep `path: /etc/kubernetes/cloud-config`, set `.spec.rkeConfig.chartValues.harvester-cloud-provider.cloudConfigPath` to `/etc/kubernetes/cloud-config` in the Rancher UI.

Reviewer 2: i think this note section is only relevant to the "_Deploying to the RKE2 custom cluster (experimental)_" section.

Author: the current document has 3+ places referring to the same script

this PR adds a dedicated link for common references; other optimizations/updates on the document will be done on other PRs

With these settings in place a K3s cluster should provision successfully while using the external cloud provider.

### Generate the cloud-config for Harvester Cloud Provider

The **Harvester Cloud Provider** requires a cloud-config file to connect to the remote Harvester cluster (e.g., to query VM information or allocate load balancers). Follow the steps below to generate this file.

:::note

We highly recommend using the **Via API Endpoint** method. The **Via Bash Script** method is considered legacy and will be deprecated in a future release.

> :::

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The **Harvester Cloud Provider** requires a cloud-config file to connect to the remote Harvester cluster (for example, to query virtual machine information or allocate load balancers). You can generate this file using either the API endpoint or a bash script.

:::info important

Support for the bash script method will be deprecated in a future release. Use the API endpoint to ensure long-term compatibility.

:::
```

> #### Via API Endpoint

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<Tabs>
<TabItem value="ui" label="API" default>
```

Reviewer: We can use tabs for the method options like we currently do [here](https://github.com/harvester/docs/blob/cb1956e16e736fba29b043b1585cf6866021a31b/docs/vm/create-vm.md?plain=1#L23-L149).

_Available as of v1.9.0_

> You can `POST` and `GET` via the Harvester API endpoint `/v1/harvester/kubeconfig` using an admin bearer token; set `outputFormat=yaml` to retrieve the `cloud-init user data` (omit it to receive the raw kubeconfig).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can send `POST` and `GET` requests to the Harvester API endpoint `/v1/harvester/kubeconfig` using an admin bearer token.
```

##### Request Parameters

| Parameter | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- |
| `namespace` | String | The target Kubernetes namespace (e.g., `gc-test`). |
| `serviceAccountName` | String | The service account name (e.g., `gc4`). |
| `clusterRoleName` | String | *(Optional)* ClusterRole to bind to the service account (e.g., `harvesterhci.io:cloudprovider`). |

> | `outputFormat` | String | The desired output format (e.g., `yaml`). |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Request Parameters

| Parameter | Type | Description | Example |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| `namespace` | String | Target Kubernetes namespace | `gc-test` |
| `serviceAccountName` | String | Service account name | `gc4` |
| `clusterRoleName` | String | ClusterRole to bind to the service account (optional) | `harvesterhci.io:cloudprovider` (only supported value) |
| `outputFormat` | String | Output format | `yaml` (only supported value) |
```

:::note

* **`clusterRoleName`**: Only supports `harvesterhci.io:cloudprovider` (which is also the default if left empty).

> * **`outputFormat`**: Supports `yaml`. Any other value (including empty) defaults to the legacy raw output.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `clusterRoleName`: Harvester uses `harvesterhci.io:cloudprovider` by default if this field is left empty.
- `outputFormat`: Setting this to `yaml` retrieves the cloud-init user data. Specifying any other value or leaving the field empty returns the raw kubeconfig file.
```

:::

> ##### 1. POST Request

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### `POST` Request

Add `-k`/`--insecure` to the `curl` command only if your Harvester endpoint uses a self-signed certificate.
```

```bash
 curl -X POST \
  -H "Authorization: Bearer token-abcde:..." \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{"namespace": "gc-test", "serviceAccountName": "gc4", "outputFormat": "yaml"}' \
  "https://<vip>/v1/harvester/kubeconfig"
```

:::note

Add `-k`/`--insecure` to the `curl` command only if your Harvester endpoint uses a self-signed certificate.

> :::

Reviewer: I moved the note. Remove these lines.

> **Response:**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### `POST` Response
```

```yaml
########## cloud-init user data ############
write_files:
- encoding: b64
  content: <BASE64_CONTENT>
  owner: root:root
  path: /etc/kubernetes/cloud-config
  permissions: '0644'
- encoding: b64
  content: <BASE64_CONTENT>
  owner: root:root
  path: /var/lib/rancher/rke2/etc/config-files/cloud-provider-config
  permissions: '0644'
```

##### 2. GET Request

> *(Note: Ensure a single `&` is used to separate query parameters)*

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### `GET` Request

Use a single ampersand (`&`) to separate query parameters.
```

```bash
curl -X GET \
  -H "Authorization: Bearer token-abcde:..." \
  "https://<vip>/v1/harvester/kubeconfig?namespace=gc-test&serviceAccountName=gc4&outputFormat=yaml"
```

> **Response:**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### `GET` Response

The API response automatically includes cloud-init configurations for both legacy and new paths. Before applying this configuration, remove the block that does not apply to your environment.
```

```yaml
########## cloud-init user data ############
write_files:
- encoding: b64
  content: <BASE64_CONTENT>
  owner: root:root
  path: /etc/kubernetes/cloud-config
  permissions: '0644'
- encoding: b64
  content: <BASE64_CONTENT>
  owner: root:root
  path: /var/lib/rancher/rke2/etc/config-files/cloud-provider-config
  permissions: '0644'
```

:::note

The API response contains the cloud-init configuration for both the legacy and new paths. Make sure to remove the section that does not apply to your environment.

> :::

Reviewer: I moved the note. Remove these lines.

> #### Via Bash Script

Reviewer: ```suggestion
</TabItem>
<TabItem value="api" label="Bash Script">
```

1.  Generate the cloud-config data using the `generate_addon.sh` script.
2.  Place the generated data on every custom node.
    * **Legacy Path:** `/etc/kubernetes/cloud-config`
    * **RKE2 Default Path (v1.9.0+):** `/var/lib/rancher/rke2/etc/config-files/cloud-provider-config`

```bash
curl -sfL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/harvester/cloud-provider-harvester/master/deploy/generate_addon.sh | bash -s <serviceaccount name> <namespace>

> ```

Reviewer: ````suggestion
1. Generate the cloud-config data using the `generate_addon.sh` script.

    ```bash
    curl -sfL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/harvester/cloud-provider-harvester/master/deploy/generate_addon.sh | bash -s <serviceaccount name> <namespace>
    ```

1. Copy the generated data to every node.

    - Legacy path: `/etc/kubernetes/cloud-config`
    - RKE2 default path (v1.9.0 and later): `/var/lib/rancher/rke2/etc/config-files/cloud-provider-config`
````

:::note

The script depends on `kubectl` and `jq` when operating the Harvester cluster, and functions only when given access to the `Harvester Cluster` kubeconfig file.

> You can find the `kubeconfig` file in one of the Harvester management nodes in the `/etc/rancher/rke2/rke2.yaml` path. The server IP must be replaced with the VIP address.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The script requires `kubectl` and `jq` to interact with the Harvester cluster, and functions only when given access to the Harvester cluster's kubeconfig file.

You can find the kubeconfig file on any Harvester management node at the following path: `/etc/rancher/rke2/rke2.yaml`. Before using the kubeconfig file, you must replace the IP address in the `server: field` with your cluster's VIP address.
```

  name: default
# ...
```

You must specify the namespace in which the guest cluster will be created.

:::

Example of output:

```yaml
########## cloud config ############
apiVersion: v1
clusters:
- cluster:
    certificate-authority-data: <CACERT>
    server: https://HARVESTER-ENDPOINT/k8s/clusters/local
  name: local
contexts:
- context:
    cluster: local
    namespace: default
    user: harvester-cloud-provider-default-local
  name: harvester-cloud-provider-default-local
current-context: harvester-cloud-provider-default-local
kind: Config
preferences: {}
users:
- name: harvester-cloud-provider-default-local
  user:
    token: <TOKEN>

########## cloud-init user data ############
write_files:
- encoding: b64
  content: <CONTENT>
  owner: root:root
  path: /etc/kubernetes/cloud-config
  permissions: '0644'
```

:::note

In newer RKE2 versions (e.g. v1.33.11), the cloud-config path defaults to `/var/lib/rancher/rke2/etc/config-files/cloud-provider-config`. Ensure `cloudConfigPath` matches the file location you write to:

- If you use the RKE2 default path, change the `write_files` entry above to `path: /var/lib/rancher/rke2/etc/config-files/cloud-provider-config`.

> - If you keep `path: /etc/kubernetes/cloud-config`, set `.spec.rkeConfig.chartValues.harvester-cloud-provider.cloudConfigPath` to `/etc/kubernetes/cloud-config` in the Rancher UI.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In newer RKE2 versions (such as v1.33.11), the default cloud-config path is `/var/lib/rancher/rke2/etc/config-files/cloud-provider-config`. You must ensure that the `cloudConfigPath` value matches the exact file location you write to.

Depending on your setup, choose one of the following approaches:

- **Use the RKE2 default path**: In the `write_files` entry in your cloud-init configuration, change the value of `path` to `/var/lib/rancher/rke2/etc/config-files/cloud-provider-config`.
- **Keep the legacy path**: In the Rancher UI, set `.spec.rkeConfig.chartValues.harvester-cloud-provider.cloudConfigPath` to `/etc/kubernetes/cloud-config`.
```

> :::

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:::

</TabItem>
</Tabs>
```
